---
title: "on social justice part duex"
date: 2023-11-08
categories: General
---

One aspect of social media I have continuously failed to keep in my mind is that it isn’t just platforms like Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter. These are platforms that typically work best with short-form content that has little in the way of tools to cite, edit, or have engaging discourse in. I forget that platforms like Reddit, Discord, YouTube, and similar exist and fall under the “social media” umbrella.

I’d like to build upon the previous post’s question of social media as an appropriate channel for libraries to promote social justice issues.

Platforms like Discord can easily be developed by a library to incorporate different rooms and spaces dedicated to specific groups and/or topics. YouTube can be used to highlight interviews, presentations, and other educational content that helps highlight social justice concerns. Discord’s Stage Channels can do similar in a live, town-hall-esque experience. 

These are platforms which have much more robust tools and methods for engaging with the public that can provide a way to engage and respond in a well-developed and reasoned manner. You are not limited to mostly arbitrary character limits, as is the case with Twitter. In addition, there are roles and moderation tools available in some of these platforms that can allow libraries to self-govern in a way that is nearly impossible on platforms like Facebook or Twitter. 

I think by using these types of platforms, a library can take content that is normally internal only, such as speaker series content, and find a way to broadcast to a wider audience. With tools like Discord’s Stages, live Q&A can occur. With Discord channels, group spaces can be developed just as a reading room might be reserved or assigned to specific community groups. Tools like this have the potential to be a true extension of the will of the library. Not just a place to post snippets to capture attention and advertise the next widget.

I think this is how libraries can help address social justice in a modern era. They have an opportunity to become bastions of safe-space in the virtual world (without attempting to insert themselves as experts as touched upon in the previous post), just as they are in the physical.
